Welcome back!
You might remember from course one that
there are eight security domains, or categories,
identified by CISSP.
Security teams use them to
organize daily tasks and
identify gaps in security that could
cause negative consequences for
an organization, and
to establish their security posture.
Security posture refers to
an organization's ability to manage
its defense of critical assets and
data and react to change.
In this video, we'll discuss
the focus of the first four domains:
security and risk management,
asset security,
security architecture and engineering,
and communication and network security.
The first domain is security and
risk management.
There are several areas of focus for
this domain:
defining security goals and
objectives, risk mitigation,
compliance, business continuity, and
legal regulations.
Let's discuss each area
of focus in more detail.
By defining security goals and objectives,
organizations can reduce
risks to critical assets and data
like PII, or
personally identifiable information.
Risk mitigation means having
the right procedures and rules
in place to quickly reduce
the impact of a risk like a breach.
Compliance is the primary method used
to develop an organization's internal
security policies, regulatory
requirements, and independent standards.
Business continuity relates to
an organization's ability to maintain
their everyday productivity by
establishing risk disaster recovery plans.
And finally,
while laws related to security and
risk management are different worldwide,
the overall goals are similar.
As a security professional, this means
following rules and expectations for
ethical behavior to minimize negligence,
abuse, or fraud.
The next domain is asset security.
The asset security domain is focused on
securing digital and physical assets.
It's also related to the storage,
maintenance,
retention, and destruction of data.
This means that assets such as PII or
SPII should be securely handled and
protected, whether stored on a computer,
transferred over
a network like the internet, or
even physically collected.
Organizations also need to have
policies and procedures that ensure
data is properly stored,
maintained, retained, and destroyed.
Knowing what data you have and who has
access to it is necessary for having
a strong security posture that mitigates
risk to critical assets and data.
Previously, we provided a few examples
that touched on the disposal of data.
For example, an organization might
have you, as a security analyst, oversee
the destruction of hard drives to make
sure that they're properly disposed of.
This ensures that private data stored
on those drives can't be accessed by
threat actors.
The third domain is security
architecture and engineering.
This domain is focused on optimizing data
security by ensuring effective tools,
systems, and processes are in place to
protect an organization's assets and data.
One of the core concepts of secure design
architecture is shared responsibility.
Shared responsibility means
that all individuals within
an organization take an active
role in lowering risk and
maintaining both physical and
virtual security.
By having policies that
encourage users to recognize and
report security concerns, many issues
can be handled quickly and effectively.
The fourth domain is communication and
network security, which is mainly
focused on managing and securing physical
networks and wireless communications.
Secure networks keep an organization's
data and communications safe
whether on-site, or in the cloud, or
when connecting to services remotely.
For example, employees working
remotely in public spaces need to be
protected from vulnerabilities
that can occur when they use
insecure bluetooth connections or
public wifi hotspots.
By having security team members remove
access to those types of communication
channels at the organizational level,
employees may be discouraged from
practicing insecure behavior that
could be exploited by threat actors.
Now that we've reviewed the focus
of our first four domains,
let's discuss the last four domains.